what we're looking at right now is we're
actually already scouting for not only
the remainder of this year's events but
also all of next year's events haver
when I am at Riot Games right now with
the head of nae sports chris hopper
better known as chopper right yes just
how should you know two people should
they call you chopper do they how does
this go because this is one of your
first interviews yeah I usually go by
chopper my handles ride chopper on
Twitter and in the game too many Chris's
born in the mid 80s so way easier to
have a nickname okay good good to know
so really quickly before we get into the
exciting stuff people this is as we
reference one of your first times on
camera people might not know what your
involvement is just a quick little bio
for you sure I came to write it back in
2012 right around the time the world
championships with the goal of helping
to launch the na and EU LCS so I did a
lot of the league ops work back then on
rule sets and team agreements and things
like that did that for about two or
three years got sick of working with
Nick Allen and decided I was going to go
work with our international team so for
three years I've been leading our
international initiative and working
with all of our 13 pro regions around
the world and then took a role helping
out with the franchising effort and na
and kind of got excited to to come back
to na to come back to the product that
I'd originally come to riot to help
build and so here I am kind of came back
to the team and incredibly excited about
the opportunities in front of us well
enough about you let's talk about
something really exciting as we're
filming this it's not an ounce but as
people are watching it it is what is
going on with any spring finals for the
enemy spring finals we are taking our
talents to South Beach we are going to
Miami to the film or Miami Beach and we
are incredibly excited Miami is an
awesome City Florida has an incredible
player base the film R is an iconic
venue in Florida and so we're super
excited to have the venue locked and to
be able to announce it today and with
you know because I know that this was
scheduled beforehand and people kind of
probably knew the dates but just in case
people didn't know when when is this
taking place so the April 7th and 8th
will have the third and fourth place
match on the seventh and we'll have the
championship match on the 8th all right
so let's dive in a little bit so why
Florida because we we went there before
for Tallahassee at MSI my favorite city
I was very excited about the fact that
it was in Tallahassee oh great
international town and but now we're
doing it in the small suburbs of South
Beach Miami so why the change and or why
go back to Florida I guess yeah you know
when we looked at the demographics
around the country Miami and sort of
South Florida in general has an
incredibly large player base and an
incredibly passionate eSports audience
you know it's been a while since we were
even in the area of remotely with
Tallahassee but to be honest the
distance between Tallahassee and Miami
is more than the distance between San
Francisco and LA and if you told San
Franciscans that an LA event counted for
them I think they'd be pretty upset so
we've constantly been looking at
opportunities to go back I mean it's an
incredible market it's gonna be you know
a great place for the pros it's gonna be
a great place for fans to visit so we've
been looking for a way to make Miami and
South Florida happen for a long time and
this just happened to be a great
opportunity to go to a really cool venue
and and make it work for the spring
finals yeah this is our we're gonna be
going with like a Spring Break theme for
this because it is quiet right around
that time right it is around that time
you know we're working with a couple
different kind of interesting themes you
know a little spring break a little
Miami Vice a little sort of just
traditional element to Miami culture you
know one of the things we love to do
when we go to host cities is tap into
the culture of that city and so I think
there's gonna be some really interesting
material that our content team was able
to put out that that taps into some of
the spirit of Miami now talk to me about
the Fillmore because I know this is a
pretty iconic venue but I admittedly I'm
not too familiar with it maybe some of
the other people watching this video or
not yes so it's a it's a venue that's
been around for decades it was opened
and did originally a lot of TV shows
most famously the Jackie Gleason show
was there for awhile it's actually
called the Jackie the Fillmore South
Beach Jackie Gleason theatre is the full
name I think but it had the Dick Van
Dyke Show it had Johnny Carson and then
it sort of transitioned into doing a lot
more sort of shows in concerts and over
the last two years it's been one of the
busiest sort of mid-size venues in the
country it's doing like over 200
concerts a year so it's an incredibly
well known you know very kind of
operationally efficient venue like it's
a great staff there and it's just a
really cool look and feel it's it's a
little different than the styles of
venues that we normally go to
and you know we go to a bunch of
basketball arenas and lets us do cool
things there but this is a little bit a
little bit smaller it's an art deco
style theater so we're gonna get some
different shots it's gonna have a little
bit of a different look and feel and the
audience is gonna be a lot closer to the
action so they're gonna feel more a part
of the show so we're excited about kind
of the different opportunities this
theater lends us yeah so why was a
strategic decision to go with something
that was a little bit different than the
arena's that we've seen in the past yeah
you know we've we've been thinking about
the differences between the spring in
the summer finals and trying to be a
little bit more conscious about our
design for the two and so going forward
we're gonna be looking at probably a
little bit smaller venues for spring
that allow us to do a little bit more
creative elements to include the
audience get different shots get
different look and feel for the show and
then for summer kind of tap into the
passion of the big crowds and get you
know the larger venues that really allow
us to get you know seven to ten thousand
people in there and really kind of get
that roar going you know having that
diversity of venue also allows us to hit
a more diverse set of geographies which
is an exciting part for us if we were
only going after the biggest venues in
the country we'd start to really hone in
on the same kind of four to six markets
repeatedly and we want to make sure that
were able to bring that live event to
more people so having a diverse set of
experiences and our set of geographies
is is an important part of this for us
now one of the things I'd love to talk
to you a little bit about this because
folks that are watching this interview
might know that I did a video last week
very much whining about how you guys
hadn't announced us yet thankfully
shortly thereafter I started to hear
that an announcement was coming soon but
you know compared to a lot of major
entertainment events I've noticed that a
lot of right events get announced pretty
short close to the actual date right
which is an issue for people planning
not just in the industry but also for
fans so is this something that you guys
consider to be an issue or is it just
sort of the nature of League of Legends
eSports I mean where you guys had on on
this type of thing
it's it's absolutely an issue for us we
recognize that delaying announcements or
or not having an announcement ready far
enough in advance hurts players it hurts
their ability to travel it hurts their
ability to attend the events and at the
end of the day if players are kind of
experiencing that pain that motivates us
to make a change so what we're looking
at right now is we're actually already
scouting for not only the remainder of
this year's events but also all of next
year's
both on the NA side and the central side
and so what we're looking to do is
really kind of widen out those windows
in advance to be able to announce the
venues it's incredibly difficult for us
to find venues we have a lot of
requirements that your average concert
or sporting event don't have but we are
committed to making this a reality that
our fans will know where and when the
events are and and it also you know reap
benefits for content creators who want
to talk to the culmination of a
storyline it'll benefit the teams who
kind of know what they're building
towards at the end of the season so
there's a lot of advantages to us doing
this and it was kind of about developing
the internal processes and procedures
such that we can lock those venues in
far enough in advance yeah cuz I one of
the things I thought was really neat was
I believe that you show or EU LCS open
was sort of teasing where string finals
was gonna be what what has it been
historically it has held North America
back from or you know and any use only
started to do this recently but sort of
held Lee Legends back from being able to
to get the stuff going honestly it's the
degree of certainty around the venue I
think if you asked us where we were
going we could give you a 90 percent
certainty about probably the next
several venues we'll be at but at the
end of the day we don't want to miss
communicate a venue that we end up not
being able to get for contractual
reasons and there's a lot of contractual
elements that we have to work out with
venues across security across
merchandise across concessions across
technical elements of the show and so
until we actually have all of those
locked down we don't feel comfortable
committing to announcing something it
with a degree of speculation knowing
that fans might go ahead and buy tickets
hoping that that ends up being the real
answer so we've been a little bit
conservative on that side to try and try
and prevent you know false information
from getting out but at the end of the
day what we're what we're working on
it's just solidifying those contracts a
lot earlier and just making sure that we
get the materials locked down so
sometimes you get any you where they get
the contract way in advance and
everything works out perfectly and then
sometimes you know it takes us a little
bit longer to get one in place yeah and
one of the things that you mentioned
sort of sort of this answer was talking
about how you guys are looking at things
not just a long you know looking at
venues in advance not just for North
America but also for Central I know
central within riot speak kind of
reference refers to stuff that isn't
just you know tied to one region can you
explain what you mean by the central
concept sure
so for central we have sort of a group
of people who work on things that are
larger than any one particular region so
whether you're thinking about events
where it pertains to things like MSI in
worlds are you thinking about League
operations where it's things like the
global penalty index or the
inter-regional movement policy there's a
set of folks that need to be able to
tackle issues that are bigger than just
North America or just Korea or just
Europe and so in referring to central
events I'm talking about things like
worlds and MSI and trying to lock in
some of those venues earlier and be able
to communicate some of that information
just like we're trying to do with North
America yeah and I'm glad that you
brought that up because well I know the
purpose of this interview is to talk
about an extreme finals and you can't
talk necessarily about where MSI and
worlds are can you give us an idea
because you know well any spring finals
you know it's a domestic audience going
to you know domestic area MSI is not too
long after spring finals and it's an
international event so there's some in
some ways much more planning even needed
for something like that
so how how should fans expect to find
out about MSI and worlds and all that
kind of stuff as the year goes on I
would say in a similar fashion in North
America we've typically tried to split
the two announcement strategies just to
allow both events their proper time to
breathe and proper time to kind of gain
traction with the audience but I would
say you know in the the next couple
weeks you should be seeing a similar
announcement strategy from the msi team
so can't wait to find out where msi is
gonna be other than that you know is
there anything that you would like to to
tease a little bit or anything you want
to say here at the end is for fans that
are thinking about don't make the trip
to Miami do I you know win is all the
stuff happening and also anything you
can mention around when we can expect to
see ticket sales and all that stuff so
people can start planning so we're going
to be making an announcement about
ticket sales in the next couple days so
you should be seeing some information
coming up very soon about where and when
you can buy those tickets in terms of
the show you know from the early kind of
materials I've seen it's gonna be
another incredible show and judging from
the competition of the teams this year
it's gonna be some incredible play so
I'm super excited about the event you
know Miami is going to be quite the
spectacle and and our content team is
always great at really capturing the
soul of a city and so I think between
you know the location the event that
were going to put on and and the the
play that you'll see on stage this to me
as the setup for one of the best spring
finals we've ever had
thank you so much for the interview
chopper really appreciate it for
everyone else you can check out the rest
of my coverage of all things eSports
right here on my youtube channel hey
guys it's Travis cafard from know
eSports company because I still don't
have a job but you know if you like me
you could support me at Travis Khafre
comm slash support do it
Thanks Omni slash